>> Mike North: So
we're gonna create a typed stack,
if you don't know what a stack is,
it is a data structure where you
push a bunch of stuff on and then you peel
them off almost like a stack of paper, so
its the first on is the last off,
first on, last off.
So you're gonna build those Stack data
structure that uses generics to constrain
the types that it accepts.
Overload the push functions, so
it can take either a single item or
an array of items, so you'll probably
have a type of fifth type of array.
Iterator of those things and
push each one of them in a sequence.
So as you can see here, I can push
this array, cherry apple grape and
then push a lemon.
And then, when I pull them off,
one by one,
it's clear that the array
was not one thing pushed in.
And for that matter, like I'm allowed to
push in an array of strings like that,
despite the fact that
stacks type is string.
Normally that would be a type error,
right,
if it were trying to use the individual
push, this is another case where
type safety is gonna help us really
express our intent very well here.
We can take both of them, but
it's very clear what one means or
what the other means.
Pop should return the object
of the appropriate type,
keep the internal data structure private,
using your access modifier keywords and
my advice here if you want to implement
things the way I implemented this just for
fun, just for extra practice with types,
I implemented this with a linked list.
Where you basically hold onto the head and
you chain these things together,
I did this because there's no
data structure in JavaScript,
that really lends itself
well to that kind of thing.
So it forces you to actually work with
types and have a type and an interface for
your node for your linked list and
make that work.
Here is the stack interface it should
be already in the starting point for
your exercise.
So to pass the test you basically
must satisfy this interface here.
Which you can see is expressed
in terms of a generic.
The I in front of stack, this is
a convention that I'm teaching you now.
This is what, like large scale type
script applications typically do.
It lets you know when you grab, when
you see that I something in your code,
you know it's an interface,
I for interface.
Whereas if we just saw a stack, you don't
really know if that's class or what.
So this makes it extremely easy to
know what is just an expression,
a description of structure
versus a constructor.
So if you like TS length which is the
common, it is the type script variant of
ES length think of it that way,
it is a static code analysis tool.
The default set of rules will have you
like interfaces always begin with I.
So starting now, I'm going to ask that you
like start working with that convention.
>> Speaker 2: And do they follow the,
all generics or t, or t something as well?
>> Mike North: It's usually single
capital letters starting with t.
So your first word would be t if you
takes two it would be t and u and so on.
That being said you can
do whatever you want.
But I developed those habits with C++ and
so I do it that way too.
T-U-V or S and T,
it's usually stuff around T.
It's not very important but
that's what you see a lot [LAUGH].
You can do whatever you want.
But like here,
if you show this to a type script person,
they'll say like " hu type parameter,
absolutely, It is definitely what that is.